Preliminary draft of CAP-0050 (#1198)
stellar/stellar-protocol: core/cap-0050.md

> ```

Reviewer: Could you add this cap to the index?

CAP: 0050
Title: Smart Contract Signatures
Working Group:
    Owner: Jonathan Jove <@jonjove>
    Authors:
    Consulted:
Status: Draft
Created: 2022-05-10

> Discussion: TBD

Reviewer: Since it seems these CAPs are being discussed on Discord, should this be:
```suggestion
Discussion: https://discord.com/channels/897514728459468821/935999748840751125/973675125201309726
```

Reviewer 2: afaik Discord doesn't archive well and there will be many threads, making this a poor fit for historical purpose

Protocol version: TBD
```

## Simple Summary

This proposal explains how to authorize a smart contract interaction.

## Motivation

Actions in smart contracts must be authorized by an external entity. The
authorization method can vary by smart contract.

> Basic authorization provides the authority to interact with a smart contract in
> the name of an account. For example, in CAP-48 and CAP-49 this level of

Reviewer 3: Is this defining "basic authorization"? I can't tell exactly. Maybe a reword is in order. Also "provides the authority" to whom? I guess the obvious answer is "to whomever has basic authorization," but this feels a little cyclical.

Possible reword, just to clarify what I'm getting at,

```suggestion
If an entity has basic authorization, it means it has the authority to interact with a smart contract 
on behalf of an account. For example, in CAP-48 and CAP-49, this level of
```

authorization is sufficient to transfer funds.

A more sophisticated aspect of authorization is the ability for one account to
grant authority to another account or contract. In some cases, it is sufficient
for the grantor to take an on-chain action. For example, in CAP-48 and CAP-49
`approve`, which depends on basic authorization, can be used to grant control
over the grantor's funds. In other cases, it is preferable for the grantee to
take the on-chain action. This is demonstrated by `permit` in EIP-2612. When the
grantee takes the on-chain action, the grantor must have presigned a message
which conveys the relevant authority.

> This proposal is concerned with basic authorization and presigned messages.

Reviewer 3: What is a presigned message, exactly? Just any payload that was signed? How is that different than... just a signed message? Just trying to unravel this for myself

While developers are free to adopt a different standard for presigned messages,
presigned messages will likely make an appearance in asset interoperability so
it is worth choosing something appropriate now.

### Requirements

#### Basic Authorization is Simple

Basic authorization, by its very nature, is intended to be basic. With smart
contracts, it is always possible to build a smart wallet with more sophisticated
capabilities. This approach has been employed successfully on Ethereum, where
most accounts use only basic authorization but some high value accounts are
secured by a smart wallet.

#### Domain Separation

To ensure security, it is essential to understand exactly what you are signing
and to interpret that data in every context where the signature confers
authority. As a cryptographic key can be used anywhere, there is no way to

> design a protocol which ensures that no unintented authority is ever granted.

Reviewer 3: typo?
```suggestion
design a protocol which ensures that no unintended authority is ever granted.
```

This problem can often be simplified by only using a cryptographic key within a
single context. In this case, you simply interpret the data in that single
context.

In the context of presigned messages, it is generally impossible to ensure that
the cryptographic key is only used in a single context. The reason is that the
same key is used for basic authorization and presigned messages. In this case,
the signature for a carefully crafted presigned message could in fact authorize
a transaction, or the signature for a carefully crafted transaction could be a

> valid presigned message in some relevant domain.

Reviewer 3: This would only be possible if the presigned message literally was a transaction hash, right?
